# index_0.2

## Observations from 0.1

Development needs to be cleanly separated into modules to allow efficient agentic coding.
I’m burning through way too many tokens in analysis and planning. As my codebase grows in scale I need to use more efficient context management strategies.

---

Local file system does not need to be the source of truth for the database layer.
Index is a single, user specific database— a ‘store’, if you will—designed to follow the user wherever they go, accessible on any device.  
This database is separate from the source files themselves. It contains only nodes, links, and tags, all of  which relate to the source data by reference. The source files themselves remain in the user’s local storage, in their control.

When a user “adds" a file to to their collection, they’re not actually moving the data into the store, but telling the store to “track” that file, creating an object in the database that contains a reference to where the file itself can be accessed.
This representative object can be used by the unifying file manager, the “store”, as a universal proxy for the file itself.
What this means is that the user can have a single unified file system across all their devices, while the files themselves remain physically on their selected devices.

### User story:
The user has three devices: a laptop, a smartphone, and an e-reader.
All three of these devices are running the Index application.
The user is browsing the internet, and downloads an ebook, The Diamond Age, by Neal Stephenson. 
They want to keep this book in their canon, and have it accessible across all their devices, so they track this file using the app. Their graph now contains an object for that file.
It can be labelled with metadata, and linked to other objects.

{
source: [ path/to/file || URL ]
name: The Diamond Age
type: book
author: Neal Stephenson
...
}

The user can now open their e-reader, and view the same canonical file system that they were looking at on their laptop.
They see {The Diamond Age}, but it’s greyed out, because while the object exists in the unified library, the file itself is not present on this device. The user wants the book on their current device, so they simply click on the object, and download the source, directly from its current location. If the source device and the target device are networked, the file can simply be copied over the local network. If the file is on the internet, it can be redownloaded.
The user could also have a centralized cloud storage device that could act as intermediary, backup, or permanent repository for all the user’s files, with the index file manager being merely a tool to organize and distribute files to their respective devices.